- [Instructor] Okay, so lets pick up
from where we left.
Now to run this RESTful API application,
I will need the Application Server.
Right, we talked about the need of Java EE Concurrency,
and we said that there's a server container environment
that is necessary.
So now, I'm going to use GlassFish Server Version 5.
In case you have no idea
how to add the GlassFish Server to NetBeans IDE,
I will quickly show you that procedure.
You have to go to Tools, Servers,
and then you can say Add Server, right there at the bottom.
When you say Add Server,
it'll tell you what you can name your server.
You can choose which server that you want to use, right,
right now we're using GlassFish,
you're free to use JBoss, or WebLogic, or WildFly,
and then say Next, and then provide the path
to the GlassFish installation directory.
So in the initial setup, we've already seen
as a part of this course,
we want to download GlassFish Server, right,
so that installation directory path
has to be provided here.
Once that's done, you just have to click on the Next button,
and make sure that the server gets added, right.
Okay, so I'm canceling this,
because I have already got the server
added to my NetBeans IDE.
So lets close this.
So now that the project has been built,
I want to run this application on the GlassFish 5 Server,
so lets right-click and say Run.
So here it's asking me to select the Server,
so I'll select GlassFish Server 5,
and maybe I'll say remember this server
for the current IDE session,
or maybe you can even say Remember Permanently,
it's your choice, and say OK.
So now, the GlassFish Server is gonna get started,
and it'll deploy that project.
Okay, great, so it's already deployed,
and the basic URL is ready for me right out here.
Okay, so I am going to use the Postman tool
for testing RESTful services.
We have already seen this as a part of the setup,
so lets copy this URL, close this,
and I have the Postman tool open in front of me.
So once you download and install it,
you can just open it, maybe register with Google,
or whatever login it asks you for,
and then it's ready right there in front of you.
So now, I'm about to test out
that GreetResource RESTful API.
How do I do that?
You have to say Ctrl + V, because that's the basic path
of your application.
Then, you will have to make sure
that you access the JAXRSConfiguration's basic URI,
which is this, okay.
Lets go back and copy that,
and to this, you're going to append
the actual RESTful Beans path too.
So you have to take this, greetUser,
and go to the Postman tool, and append that,
and then click on Send.
There you go, you have the output ready in front of you,
Java EE concurrency starts.
So we have been able to successfully
make a RESTful Bean in a RESTful API project,
and also test it out.
Okay, so that's the basic setup.
So hence forward, whatever the (mumbles)
we're going to do,
we are going to use the Managed objects
using RESTful services.
A couple of other points, we talked about Managed Resources
of the Server.
In the previous discussion, we said there are two ways
of getting those resources,
either by an entry in the deployment descriptor,
or by JNDI lookup or Resource annotation, right.
So if you're trying to have
the deployment descriptor configured,
that's the entry you want to make into it,
the web XML file.
So you have a resource environment reference name,
a name of your choice,
and then the fully qualified class name
of the managed object of the container
that you want to use in your application.
If you do not want to do this,
there's this other option of JNDI lookup
or Resource annotation.
So, the container by default, always provides you
a set of Concurrent Resources.
How do you know that?
Lets check it out.
So we are going to access the Admin Console
of the GlassFish Server.
The Admin Console of GlassFish Server
is available at the port 4848.
Lets click Enter, it automatically takes you to the Console.
There we go, that's the GlassFish Console, okay,
and do you see the Resources option here?
And under that, you have Concurrent Resources.
Those are the four APIs that we have been discussing,
Contact Service, Managed Thread Factory,
Managed Executor Service,
and the Scheduled Executor Service.
So when you click here, do you see
that there's a default Managed Executor Service object
already ready for you?
That's right, so you either define
your own environment reference variables
by making entries to (mumbles),
the way I showed you before, or,
you already have these default objects available
on the Console, on the Container IDE,
you can use them directly in your code,
and that's what we are going to do for this course.
You're gonna pick up these default executor object,
or Concurrent objects, as we say, which are already present
and utilize them to see our demos.